- Linux has 2 main display servers/compositors to give a GUI:
	- First is X11 which is now old.
	- Second is Wayland which is new and maybe better?
- The compositor is like the core program which enables a GUI
- Each Desktop Environment is built on top of one of these display compositors.

We're going to be using `Hyprland` Desktop Environment, which runs on top of the `Wayland` compositor, so first we need to download some packages:

1. `hyprland`, installs wayland automatically as a dependecy
2. `kitty`, is the terminal written in the default hyprland config.
Now when I run `Hyprland`, the desktop environment loads, the cursor moves, but kitty doesn't launch and the autogenerated warning doesn't come, this is because of some fonts shit.
To fix it install `noto-fonts`

To use my NVIDIA GPU I installed NVIDIA Drivers from packages `nvidia` and `nvidia` utils.
A lot more learning needs to be done on the ecosystem of these software

I tried installing and using wezterm, but for some reason it's not able to use the GPU to run, in order to make it run i tried a huge load of shit but it all failed, including indtalling amlost all the packages from ThePrimagen's stream's display drivers, which I'll need to cleanup later.

For now the ghostty terminal is rendering on the GPU correctly.

Need an app launcher instead of launching every gui program from the terminal, we'll use `wofi` for now

We dont have anything which manages audio/video input output, for this we'll install `pipewire` and `wireplumber` and run their daemons.