
#### 1.1 Command syntax

A linux command has 3 basic things:
1. The command itself
2. Options
3. Arguments

```bash
command_name [options] [arguements]
```

A command is simply a name. e.g: `ls` `cat`, `grep`

An option is given to change the behaviour of the command, e.g: `ls` gives a regular listing of files, whereas `ls -l` the "long listing" option lists files with details like file permissions, size, etc.

An argument is some data for the command to act upon, e.g: `ls <directory path>`, then `ls` will list the contents in the `<directory_path>`, instead of the current directory.


#### 1.2 Types of Commands

There are 3 types of commands when using `bash`

1. aliases
2. internal commands (shell-builtins)
3. external commands


##### 1.2.1 Aliases

These are like personal bash shortcuts we can create for our commands

e.g: I have a "Programming" directory i frequent, so to go to it quickly, instead of typing `cd ~/Programming` every time, i can alias it to anything, personally i do `p:`.

To set an alias
```bash
alias <new_command>="<old_command>"
```

The entire old command should be wrapped in quotes (single or double), especially if it is a multi-word command.

##### 1.2.2 Internal Commands (shell-builtins)

Some commands are built into the shell.
To execute these, There is no need for a disk read to be done to load an executable.

e.g: `echo`, `type` are bash shell builtins.


##### 1.2.3 External Commands

These commands are not a part of the shell

To execute these, an executable file has to read in from the disk, and then run.

e.g: `ls`, `cat`, `grep`, etc.


- To determine which type of a command a command is, use the `type` command, which is also a shell builtin:
```bash
type <command_name>
```

- Note that there might be multiple commands of the same name, `type` only returns info about the command that the shell will default to.
- e.g: there are 2 `echo`'s, 1 is a shell builtin, another is a GNU coreutil executable
- `type echo` returns the shell builtin, to see all possibilities of a command name, use the `-a` option on type

```bash
$ type echo
echo is a shell builtin

$ type -a echo
echo is a shell builtin
echo is /usr/bin/echo
```


#### 1.3 Executing external commands

- External commands are nothing but normal executable files.
- To execute an executable file, it's entire filepath must be given.
- But we never give `/usr/bin/echo` or `/usr/bin/ls`
- This is because of the `PATH` environment variable
- It is a list of colon separated directory paths to look in when an executable is to be run without giving it's full path.

When you run 
```bash
$ ls
```

The bash shell does something like this internally
```bash
for directory in $PATH
	if <command_name> exists in directory
		execute it
		return
	end if
end for

# command not found
echo <command_name> not found
```

Note that the current directory you are in i.e, `./` is not there in the `PATH` environment variable, this is why we have to give the filepath in the form of `./<executable_name>` when we are executing our own programs

We can add `./` to `PATH`, but it is recommended to not do so for security reasons