
#### 4.1 Declaring and using Shell Variables

- A shell variable can be declared using the following syntax:
```bash
$ <varName>=<value>
```

Note that there should be no space before and after the `=` sign.

This above variable is a local to the current shell, not an environment variable, i.e, it will not be available in any of the sub-shells or sub-processes.
<hr>

- To make a local shell variable a "global" variable which will be available to the sub-shells and sub-processes, use the `export` bash builtin
```bash
$ export {<existing variable name> | <new var declaration>}
```

- Note that `export` can only propagate variables to the environment of the child process, not the parent process or sibling processes
<hr>

- To see all the environment variables (local variables excluded) in the current shell use the `env` command.


#### 4.2 Default Environment Configuration Files

- `/etc/profile`: This file is processed/executed by all users on the system only once in the login shell.
 
- `/etc/bashrc`: This file is processed/executed for all users, in each shell and sub-shell.

- `$HOME/.bash_profile`:  This file is executed in the login shell of the user who owns the `$HOME` directory.

- `$HOME/.bashrc`: This file is executed by each shell and sub-shell of the user who owns the `$HOME` directory.


Note that aliases are NOT propagated to sub-shells so better to declare them in the `bashrc` files instead of the `profile` files.
<hr>

#### 4.3 Login Messages

- To give users some messages before logging in like login instructions, or a welcome message after they login, use the `/etc/motd` and `/etc/issue` files.

- The contents of `/etc/issue` are displayed to the user before they login from a text based console interface.

- The contents of `/etc/motd` are displayed to the user after they login successfully from a text based console interface

- Note that these aren't applicable when logging in directly from a GUI.