
- The filesystem layout of Linux Systems is defined in the `Filesystem Hierarchy Standard`.

- The standard defines some directories, and what they should contain.

- Each Linux Distro implements some of these or a subset of these directories.

1. `/`: The root directory, this is the beginning of the virtual filesystem on a Linux system.
2. `/boot`: This directory contains essential files needed to start/boot up the system. It is usually physically present at the beginning of the disk (first partition)
3. `/dev`: This directory contains files which represent (mostly) physical devices. In Linux everything is represented with a file, so in order to interact with physical devices the files are present in this directory
4. `/etc`: Contains System-Wide configuration files. Apps place their default configs here.
5. `/home`: Contains the home directories for users
6. `/media` and `/mnt`: used to create directories to mount devices on.
7. `/opt`: Optional Packages installed
8. `/proc`: The `proc` filesystem which contains information about processes which are currently running, like the memory usage, open files, etc.
9. `/run`: Contains process and user-specific information that has been created since the last boot.
10. `/srv`
11. `/sys`
12. `/tmp`: Temporary files created by running processes, e.g: Incomplete downloads, or intermediate files generated by compilers
13. `/usr`
14. `/var`: Variable length files, like log files


#### 6.1 Understanding mounts

- A Filesystem on a device is like a tree, with a root and intermediate nodes (directories) and leaf nodes (files).
- Now if we want to access a different filesystem on the same storage device (different partition) or a different device (USB or NAS or NFS), that Filesystem's tree needs to attach to our Computer's/System's tree.
- This process of attaching a Filesystem to a main Linux Fileystem tree is called "mounting".
- Any storage device with a Filesystem can be mounted.
- The mounting should happen on an empty directory, this empty directory will now serve as the access point to the root of the mounted Filesystem, and is called the "mount-point".
- Mount-points are usually created in `/mnt` or `/media` directories.

To mount a device's Filesystem on a mount-point use the `mount` command with root privileges.
```bash
$ [sudo] mount <target device> <path to mount-point>
```

To see all of the mounts and mount points on your device use:
```bash
$ mount
$ # or use
$ findmnt
```


- Use the `df` command to check disk usage, available space, etc.
- Usually used with the options `-T` and `-h` as `df -Th`.

