
### What is git?

Git is a Version Control System (VCS) which helps in managing a project's code/any files in a folder in general.

It tracks the content changes in a project/folder along with information of who made those changes, at what time, etc.

The tracking happens via taking "snapshots" of the project called "commits".

git stores the entire history of the repo on a per-commit basis, i.e, in each commit it not just stores the changes from previous commits, but the entire history since the repo was initialized.

Run the following command to ensure git is installed.:
```bash
git --version
```

Else install using your package manager or a direct binary from git's website incase you're using Windows.

### Command Syntax

Commands will be written in the [[EBNF|EBNF]] (Extended Backus Naur Form)

### How to start "tracking" a project?

To make git start tracking your project, you have to initialize a **git repository**.

A git repository (repo for short), is just a regular folder on your system that git is tracking.

To initialize a git repo, go to the folder you wish to track and run `git init`

```bash
cd /path/to/your/folder
git init
```

This will create a `.git` folder in your project folder, this is where all the git tracking magic happens.



### Plumbing vs Porcelain commands

There are two types of git commands
1. Porcelain
2. Plumbing
<br>
- The Plumbing commands are the ones which allow for us to directly tamper around with the files and folders in the `.git` directory.
- Plumbing commands require a deep knowledge of how git works internally.
- The Porcelain commands are the ones like `git add`, `git commit` etc.
- These commands allow easy use of git without having to understand how git works, tracks files, etc. under the hood
- Porcelain commands are like easy to use wrappers around the plumbing commands.
- In day-to-day life a person will use porcelain commands 99% of the time