
The git config files are a INI (initialization) style plain-text configuration file.
git uses these files to pull data for tracking files such as:
- The user's name, email address
- Default branch name
- Remote URL the local repo should be pushed to
and much more


#### Locations of git configs
1. System config, configures for all users on the system
		is present at `/etc/gitconfig`<br>
2. Global config, configures for all  projects of a particular user
		is present at `$HOME/.gitconfig`<br>
3. Local config, configures for a specific project
		is present at `<path-to-repo>/.git/config`<br>
4. Worktree config, configures a part of a project
		is present at `<path-to-repo>/.git/config.worktree`<br>
Each type of config files overwrites any conflicting keys with the previously applied configs at higher levels.

This is useful for having a personal user.name and user.email set on the global config, and then overwrite it in a local config if you need to use a company work email and stuff for that particular project.



```bash
git config get <key>
```

will return the latest value applied and in use for the key.

```bash
git config set <key> <value>
```
will set the `key` to `value` in the local config

Note that git config keys are case-insensitive, but values are case-sensitive

flags like `--local` or `--global` can be used to get, set shit in specifically local or global configs.

Most useful commands after installing git for the first time:

```bash
git config set --global user.name <your_name>
git config set --global user.email <your_email>
git config set --global init.defaultBranch main
```

The user.name is not supposed to be your github username or anything, it just needs to be a display name line "Jane Smith" to identify the person/author of a commit.

git allows us to store/add/set multiple values for a key, eg:
```bash
git config add webflyx.ceo "Warren"
git config add webflyx.ceo "Carson"
git config add webflyx.ceo "Sarah"
```
But only the last one applied will actually be used

Now when you try a `git config unset webflyx.ceo`, it will error saying key has multiple values.

You can use
```bash
git config --unset-all webflyx.ceo
```
To remove all the values for that key

Notice when you `cat` out a git config file, it is of the format:
```console
[user]
        name = Faizan Khan
        email = duznoj@gmail.com
[init]
        defaultBranch = master
```

Here, `users` and `init` are called "sections", `name` and `email` are keys within the `user` section, this corresponds to the `user.name` key that we set initially.

To remove an entire section you can do a:
```bash
git config --remove-section <section-name>
```