- Trying to install Arch on real hardware instead of a VM for the first time to dual boot with Windows
- SSD 0 has windows installed on it
- Will be Installing arch on SSD 1

### 1.1 Setup
- Installed arch iso image file and set up a bootable USB using **Rufus** tool
- Went into BIOS and disabled **Secure Boot** which is a mechanism to prevent unauthorized code from running at boot time
	- Authorized code are signed with a Microsoft-trusted certificate.
	- arch bootable iso doesn't come with it so had to disable secure boot.

- Note that what we are currently running is an entire independent arch system stored on the USB. This allows us to interact with all of the hardware in an arch environment via the linux kernel, and arch system and all the programs stored on the USB, but right now if we restart the system, the 2nd SSD doesn't have any arch or linux to run.
### 1.2 Internet
- run `ping google.com` to check if we have internet connectivity.
- I currently do not have internet connectivity probably because I'm on wifi, VMs usually were connected to virtual ethernet and had internet connectivity by default. Maybe if I connected this real hardware to ethernet I would've gotten internet by default, but since I'm not I'll have to configure wifi.

- run `iwctl` (internet wireless control) utility program.
- Its a CLI tool to configure wireless shit. Now all the following commands are to be used inside the `iwctl` shell, they're not regular linux/bash commands
- use `device list` command to see the wireless interfaces/adapters, I can see mine as `wlan0` along with it's MAC Address and some other info
- use `station <interface name> get-networks` to see the list of WIFI networks the adapter is catching signals from. In my case `<interface name>` is `wlan0`
- use `station <interface name> connect <WIFI network name>` to connect to that WIFI
- use command `exit` the `iwctl` CLI, test `ping` again to see if we have internet connectivity.
