### 2.1 Selecting Disk
- We need to partition the disk we're installing Arch on.
- To check all of the `block devices` connected, run `lsblk [-f]`
- ignore `loop0`
- `sda` is the bootable USB of the ISO
- `nvme0n1` and `nvme1n1` are the 2  SSDs connected
- Correctly identify which one is the windows SSD and which is the free SSD to install Arch on.
- Since I formatted and cleared the Arch SSD, it is shown as a simple `nvme1n1` without any partitions.
- `<diskName>pX` is the `X`<sup>th</sup> partition on that disk. Partition numbers start from 1
- If used `lsblk -f` the `-f` flag shows all the Filesystems on each partition. Better help judge which SSD we want to install Arch on.
- Selecting the correct disk is crucial otherwise we'll format/override the windows system and it'll be lost forever.

	- Note: It is not mandatory to have an entire separate physical SSD to install a dualboot machine.
	- For a single SSD Dual Boot:
		- Shrink the last volume of Windows using `Disk Manager` in windows to have some unallocated free space
		- now in the Arch install medium, identify the free space correctly in the `lsblk` output.

### 2.2 Partitions
- Need an ESP (EFI System Partition) at the beginning of the disk, a small 512MiB should be enough but we'll give 1GiB to be safe since we have 931GiB disk to play with
- Then a `swap` partition used for virtual memory in case the RAM gets full
- Then rest of the disk will be of data, since the first folder is root `/` this is called root partition.
- Optionally people keep `/home` in a separate partition, but I won't do ts.
- First confirm if the disk is GPT identified, when running `cfdisk <path to disk file>`
- The `Label` line should read something like `gpt, identifier: <some large number>`
- If this is not the case convert it to a valid GPT disk using `fdisk <path to disk file>`
	- `g` creates and empty gpt table
	- We can partition the disk now in `fdisk` only, but `cfdisk` has a nicer GUI, so we'll only write the empty GPT table from `fdisk` and quit.
- To partition we'll use the `cfdisk` utility program.
- run `cfdisk <path to disk name>`
- Creating partitions is simple, but for each partition, it's type is set to `Linux Filesystem` by default, we need to change those, we can do it from `cfdisk` itself, but we'll do it using some other command line tools.

### 2.3 Partition Types
Now to set the partition types, i.e write in the partition table and it's entries, we'll use the `mkfs`(make filesystem) suite of tools
- First set partition type for the root using:
	`mkfs.ext4 <path to the root partition>`
- Second set the partition type for the swap:
	`mkswap <path to swap partition>`
 - Lastly for the ESP:
	 `mkfs.fat -F 32 <path to ESP>`

### 2.4 Mounting
- Now that we have partitions, we can't directly `cd` into them to do regular linux things as we are currently booted into the installation USB.

- So to perform shit on the target disk to install arch, we need to create mount points for all the partitions on the current installation medium.

- We'll create mount points on the installation mediums `/mnt` directory

The regular syntax for mounting shit is:
`mount <which target device you want to mount> <which directory do you want to mount it on>` 

- First mount the root partition using:
	`mount /mnt <path to root partition> /mnt`
- Create a `boot` directory inside the root directory
	`mkdir /mnt/boot`
- Mount the `ESP` on this directory
	`mount <path to ESP> /mnt/boot`
		NOTE: Even though ESP comes before `/` physically, logically it can be mounted inside a directory inside the physically later coming root partition.
		Mounting is basically a pointer saying, whatever you're doing in this directory, do it physically at the location of the ESP.
- Swap partition isn't needed to be mounted on, it just needs to be turned on, later the shit generated by `genfstab` will tell linux to use swap partition as swap
	`swapon <path to swap partition>`